I got a question remember the audience
and it deals with telling the truth it's
very easy to think of telling the truth
as a strength but I think most of us
here on the Internet
are telling the truth from a position of
weakness
we are clinging to the truth because
it's all we've got
when I first went to Cambodia to do
humanitarian work I was a critic of
several of the humanitarian agencies
there so talking about wealthy white
people almost entirely European who'd
come to Cambodia set up agencies
denounced and criticized the Cambodian
government and they got kicked out one
way or another the Cambodian government
got rid of these charities as unwanted
criticism and you know when I first got
there to Cambodia I was very critical of
those groups did you come to this
country to help poor people just because
they're poor or did you come to rub the
government's face in your sense of moral
intellectual superiority you know what
maybe you do know better than the
government can put you with your
Cambridge education or your Oxford
education we are Ivy League education
you know what you're rich and you're
white and you're West you may know
better about all kinds of things when I
lived in Laos I seemed to know more
about sewage treatment plants than the
people in the Lao government and it
drove me crazy I seem to know more about
ecology and all kinds of things I care
to vote but you know I didn't feel it
was my place to in that disrespectful
and accusatory way point the figure even
if I were right and here's here's the
thing for those agencies with that money
in that position of privilege and power
okay it would have been more powerful
for them to lie for them to remain
insider
for them to play the game they could
have influenced the government they
could have brought about real change and
they could have brought about real
changes through their own humanitarian
agency their one organization in
Cambodia and instead they got their
asses kicked out
they became exiled because they wanted
to tell the truth alright
I was I was younger then you know and
when I'm looking at that you know so
what do you what do you really care
about you know this is before I knew
about YouTube probably YouTube existed
then but it was in the in the early days
you know so I mean like what do you want
to be like a radio talk-show host do you
want to be like a youtuber who comes to
Cambodia and points the finger and says
this government official is corrupt and
that government officials broke and
you're probably right I mean I can't
just say these these NGOs were 100%
right all the time but whatever they're
probably 90% right 90% of the time or
whatever it is there's a lot of
corruption it's government it's the
point is not that I disagree with the
critique but did you come here to be a
critic did you come here to be a radio
talk-show host
or did you come here to give clean
running water to people who don't have
clean running water and build homes and
put roofs over people's heads and teach
people how to do a job or offer them
education or literacy or whatever it is
you know look what is the point of what
you're doing here okay and as soon as
you get on that path of compromise right
then you start asking yourself another
bunch of questions okay
so let's say you care about helping the
poor and you care about helping the
downtrodden and providing them with
running water okay so now how many lies
are you willing to tell how much
government corruption are you willing to
cover-up
are you willing to stay solid about how
many people get killed how many dead
bodies how many people disappear see
when I was younger I didn't understand
that side of the game right I saw like
look you can compromise and be a power
player inside and get results and work
with the government and work with
corrupt companies and things too it's
not all government it's primarily the
government maybe you know maybe there's
a local sugar cane corporation or
something you got to work with to to
achieve your humanitarian goals okay you
can you can play it cool and be on the
inside and get results or you can be
like a radio talk show host who everyday
is saying you're corrupt you don't know
what you're doing you're incompetent
it's a critic and you're an outsider and
you can accomplish nothing you can't
bring about any real change in the world
and then yeah you get to just indulge
your cell sense of moral superiority and
intellectual superiority but you've
ruined yourself okay I'm older now I'm
more mature and I understand there were
a lot of other questions do a lot of
other questions here that are at stake
all right and the most fundamental and
the one you have to deal with every day
is Who am I when I wake up in the
morning and look at the mirror who do I
have to deal with who do I get to be
right and maybe it's just one dead body
you know maybe you're not covering up a
whole lot maybe it's just two or three
you know corrupt government officials it
may not you know may not be that
terrible the things you have to do in
the scale of things about but you're the
guy who did it
and that's you're looking at in the
mirror when you wake up in the morning
whether it's just a few murders or a few
bribes or a few covered up disasters
controversies or what-have-you
right who are you gonna work with if
you're a coward if you compromise right
it's interesting you find yourself
surrounded by cowards you're living in a
culture of cowardice right if you're a
hero if you're a person of principle if
you stand up until the truth even if it
gets you kicked out of the country or
even gets you killed or whatever you
find yourself in the company of heroes
it's interesting all those things
gravitate together right so I now look
back at that in a in a very different
way than when I first arrived in
Cambodia and you know what both matter
you know both the real-world outcomes
matter and the truth matters you know
doing the right thing because the right
thing to do matters and and you know it
really does matter whether or not people
have clean water drink
oh that's it's not it's not one of the
other it's gotta be both right you've
got but the tragedy of human life is at
what point does doing the right thing
because the right thing to do become a
pretext for evil and it happens okay I
got an email I'm not gonna read out you
got a message from someone actually on
discord viewer the channel he's asking
me is it worth it to stand up and tell
the truth to people when you really
fundamentally morally disagree with him
he gives two examples from opposite ends
of the spectrum of seriousness one is
standing up to and confronting people
who really do support Anacin so in
essence a youtuber with mmm storied
storied love life here on YouTube and
various ethical transgressions we all
like to criticize okay is it worth it to
stand up and tell the truth and confront
those people and the opposite example he
gives is standing up and talking to
neo-nazis white supremacists racists and
people that in the political spectrum
Andy outlines some of the sort of
psychological and political problems
with creating these conflicts and won't
that just make the people you're
opposing more embittered and
self-pitying and one have various kind
of negative consequences that end rather
than positive consequences want to bring
more public attention to the people
you're criticizing rather than ignoring
them or what have you all right
my channel has basically been
blacklisted on YouTube since I stood up
and pointed the finger at a series of
racists white supremacist India Nazis
all right and I know most people on
YouTube care about success they care
about earning a living on this platform
they don't want to be blacklisted so
those people will never do what I did
you know there is one video on this
channel the title of which memorably is
Canadian Hitler
and it is pointing the finger at a
racist anti-semitic white supremacist
youtuber who became a real political
leader and as I believe stood in two
different elections one I'm certain of
she stood for election at least once but
I think a second time in no time at all
she went from being a YouTube
personality to being a serious player in
Canadian politics with consequences and
it really matters that we have voices on
YouTube who are going to point the
finger and say in no uncertain terms
look this woman uses coded language
because she does this woman uses
so-called dog whistles and so on but
make no mistake this is a neo-nazi this
is what she represents politically
ethically so on and so forth all right
that critique is you know necessary and
kind of morally important to do all
right so this comes down to two very
simple questions what kind of person do
you want to be and if not you then who
we are making a transition in the 21st
century professional journalism is dying
it used to be that there were two
separate types of people in the world
there were people who did real things
and then there were journalists who
wrote about it and you can imagine in
that that old world the professional
journalism let's say 50 years ago there
might be someone who was making the
compromises to meet with corrupt
government officials so that they could
get clean running water hodor for some
charity and someone who was recording
what was happening and secretly handing
documents to professional journalists to
write about it so they could continue
doing their work and the journalist can
separately publish it and try to chase
up the ends that is gone
all right the role of the professional
journalist is over and the era of the
amateur journalist the era of each and
every one of us being in our own small
way a radio talk show host is very real
here and now all right if I did not
stand up and make those videos there are
quite a few pointing the finger at
people and saying look this is real
racism this is really a problem this
really matters I think my daughter and
my grandchildren would be in a position
to ask me what the hell were you doing
that was so important that you didn't do
this this was on this is on your watch
right and the dissent of societies from
democracy into tyranny whether it be
democracy into fascism or democracy into
communism or democracy and
authoritarianism it happens because
people like you and me don't point the
finger and say hey this is what's really
going on here this is what this is what
really matters the most tragic thing of
all when you're reading the history of
the rise of Adolf Hitler isn't that
there were crazy people on one extreme
and crazy people on the other but that
there were all these reasonable people
in the middle who just said well you
know it won't be that bad you know it'll
just be a fad this fascism thing it'll
come and go after a few years you'll
you'll see and well it will be that bad
and obviously at that time a small
number of people had access to a
printing press or a microphone at a
radio station a very small number of
people would have had the option to do
original research and present an
informed opinion and say no this is not
like any other fad the nature of the
threat is very real the consequences for
this are very real and what you think is
reasonable is profoundly irrational
dangerous the excuses in the middle core
sir you're taking right you can't always
be right you can always try to tell the
truth you can always try to do the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
and you don't get to decide if you will
be hated or you will be loved for that
there were university professors here
University of Victoria right now who
hate me hate me for telling certain
inconvenient truths you don't get to
choose if you're gonna be hated or I
love for that but you get to choose who
that person is that you see in the
mirror in the morning you get to choose
who you're going to be and when you make
compromises when you're a coward there
are terrible consequences for the
character of that person you have to
live with